## Week 1 (31-05-2021 / 06-06-2021)

I came up with the idea of using open-source imaging data for a home analysis project. As I wanted to keep busy with neuroimaging, while being unemployed and not affiliated with any scientific institution, I wondered how far I could get with only open-source, free data and tools.

Monday: The idea started forming in my head when intermittently going through PyTorch tutorials, Kaggle datasets and eventually found OpenNeuro. Doing a project on something I had done before (creating a full neuroimaging processing pipeline) and had more interest in then a detached ML project seemed like a better use of my time. I downloaded 28AndMe dataset.
Tuesday: I spent most of today looking through Medium and other platforms for similar projects. I found an encouraging article focussing on blogging for data scientists (core message: start doing it!). Also, I read an article pondering the point and use of open-source biological data. This could be useful in my own evaluation and motivation to the project.
Wednesday: I downloaded Oracle and SPM12 (standalone version), with many hiccups in setting up the two softwares. I downloaded the main article on connectivity analysis from this dataset. Started on implementing the VDM calculation, getting familiar with Oracle scripting (some growing pains coming from the comfort of MATLAB).
Thursday: Much time was spent on relearning some SPM scripting tricks in handling data types for proper loading of the batch. SPM standalone version is also very unstable, so much time was spent on restarting SPM and Oracle. Investing in scripting instead of using the GUI will pay off in the long run even more in this case.
Friday: I set up a project repo to put my code online. This will make me more motivated to finish the, now public, product.
Saturday: I finished setting up the repo. I aso wrote these updates for the week.